Miranda/create hypertable (#913)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/getting-started/create-hypertable.md

# Create a hypertable
Now that you've launched your first TimescaleDB instance and accessed your database,
you can create your first hypertable. Hypertables are the heart of TimescaleDB functionality
and allow TimescaleDB to work efficiently with time-series data.

## Hypertables and chunks

> Hypertables and chunks make storing and querying times-series data fast at peta-byte 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hypertables and chunks make storing and querying times-series data fast at petabyte 
```

scale. 

TimescaleDB automatically partitions time-series data into **chunks**, or sub-tables, 
based on time and space. You can configure chunk size so that recent chunks fit in memory 
for faster queries. 

A **hypertable** is an abstraction layer over chunks that hold the time-series data.

> Hypertables allow you to query and access data from all the chunks within the hypertable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hypertables allow you to query and access data from all the chunks within the hypertable.
You get all the benefits of automatic chunking for time-series data, alongside the simplicity
of working with what looks like a standard, single PostgreSQL table.
```

Hypertables and chunks enable superior performance for shallow and wide queries,
like those used in real-time monitoring. They are also good for deep and narrow
queries, like those used in time-series analysis.

> <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/hypertables-chunks.png" alt="hypertable and chunks"/>

Author: I feel like it is a good place to quickly show the concept given that we talk about it briefly. @ryanbooz what are your thoughts?

> <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/hypertables-chunks.png" alt="hypertable and chunks"/>

Author: @ryanbooz ping

> <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/hypertables-chunks.png" alt="hypertable and chunks"/>

Author: So Ryan messaged me separately that he thinks it would be okay to add. Though he did suggest maybe I should add a more specified image showing this specific data and how it would be structured in the same way (like do this on the adding-data page??) what do you think about that idea @charislam?

> <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/getting-started/hypertables-chunks.png" alt="hypertable and chunks"/>

Reviewer: Yeah I think that's great!

> -- Hypertable to store weather metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-- Hypertable to store real-time stock trades
```

----------------------------------------
-- Step 1: Define regular table

> CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS stocks_real_time (
> 
>    time TIMESTAMPTZ NOT NULL,
>    symbol text NULL,
>    price double PRECISION NULL,
>    day_volume int NULL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS stocks_real_time (
   time TIMESTAMPTZ NOT NULL,
   symbol TEXT NOT NULL,
   price DOUBLE PRECISION NULL,
   day_volume INT NULL
```
Do we ever expect price to be null?

);

-- Step 2: Turn into hypertable
SELECT create_hypertable('stocks_real_time','time');
```

Creating a hypertable is a two-step process:

> - Use a `CREATE TABLE` statement to create a regular relational table
> - Use a `SELECT` statement with the [`create_hypertable`][create-hypertable] function to convert 
> the table into a hypertable. The `create_hypertable` function requires two input 
> values, the name of the table, and the name of the time column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a regular PostgreSQL table with `CREATE TABLE...`
- Convert it to a hypertable by calling the [`create_hypertable()`][create-hypertable] function to convert 
the table into a hypertable. The `create_hypertable()` function requires two input parameters - the name of the table, and the name of the time column.
```
I'm totally open to wording. For me, the "use... use" repeat just doesn't feel active.

partitioning on time, hypertables improve resource use. Queries and
data-stores become more efficient.

   COMMENT:
   I feel like we probably don't need this section but wherever this section is, 
   I think it would be cool to include a graphic that shows these benefits 
   https://iobeam.slack.com/archives/C0J94TE4F/p1646682667481189?thread_ts=1646682487.374619&cid=C0J94TE4F
-->

## Learn more about hypertables and chunks

> See the [Hypertable How-To](/how-to-guides/hypertables) to learn more about

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about hypertables and best practices for configuring chunks, see [Hypertable How-To](/how-to-guides/hypertables). To learn more about why hypertables help with storing and querying data, see
the [hypertables and chunks core concepts page][core-concepts-hypertables].
```

partitioning on time, hypertables improve resource use. Queries and
data-stores become more efficient.

   COMMENT:
   I feel like we probably don't need this section but wherever this section is, 
   I think it would be cool to include a graphic that shows these benefits 
   https://iobeam.slack.com/archives/C0J94TE4F/p1646682667481189?thread_ts=1646682487.374619&cid=C0J94TE4F
-->

## Learn more about hypertables and chunks

> See the [Hypertable How To](/how-to-guides/hypertables) to learn more about

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [Hypertable How-To](/how-to-guides/hypertables) to learn more about
```
I think we want the hyphen?

Reviewer 3: Yes: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3914967/157372179-f3c22939-08bf-453d-912c-89aba4562e18.png)

> See the [Hypertable How To](/how-to-guides/hypertables) to learn more about

Reviewer: To learn more about hypertables and best practices for configuring chunks, see ...
To learn why hypertables help with storing and query data, see ...

> See the [Hypertable How To](/how-to-guides/hypertables) to learn more about

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about hypertables and best practices for configuring chunks, see 
[Hypertable How-To](/how-to-guides/hypertables). To learn how hypertables help with 
storing and querying data, see the [hypertables and chunks core concepts page][core-concepts-hypertables].
```

> hypertables and best practices for configuring chunks. You can also learn more 

Author: ```suggestion
```

about why hypertables help with storing and querying time-series data through 

> the [hypertables and chunks core concepts page][core-concepts-hypertables].

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Next steps
```

> Next, ingest some sample data into TimescaleDB. Continue on to the ['Add time-series data' section][add-data] 
> for information on how to populate the table you just created. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, ingest some sample stock trade data into TimescaleDB! Step 4, ['Add time-series data' section][add-data], will show you how to populate the hypertable you just created. 
```
Again, open to wording. "Continue on to..." feels wordy to me.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have an empty hypertable, learn how to ingest data. To populate
your hypertable with sample stock trade data, see [Adding time-series data][add-data].
```

"where" is the least important detail so should go last
